Fix and improve pages Hono guide (#7410)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/deploy-a-hono-site.md

---
pcx_content_type: how-to
title: Deploy a Hono site
---

# Deploy a Hono site

[Hono](https://honojs.dev/) is a small, simple, and ultrafast web framework for Cloudflare Pages and Workers, Deno, and Bun. In this guide, you will create a new Hono application and deploy it using Cloudflare Pages.

## Create a new project

Create a new project by running the following commands in your terminal:

```sh
$ mkdir my-hono-app
$ cd my-hono-app
$ npm init -y

# Make sure Hono is installed
$ npm install hono

# Install the required dependencies
# ESBuild is needed to bundle the hono app code
# npm-run-all enables us to run multiple npm commands at once
$ npm install --save-dev wrangler esbuild npm-run-all
```

> If you want your application to use typescript we need to generate a `tsconfig.json` file, to do so run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want your application to use TypeScript, you need to generate a `tsconfig.json` file. To generate a `tsconfig.json` file:
```

```sh
$ npm install --save-dev typescript
$ npx tsc --init
```

> Open your project and create a `src/server.js` file (or `src/server.ts` if you're using typescript). Add the following content to your file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open your project and create a `src/server.js` file (or `src/server.ts` if you are using TypeScript). Add the following content to your file:
```

```javascript
import { Hono } from "hono";
const app = new Hono();

app.get("/", (ctx) => ctx.text("Hello world, this is Hono!!"));

export default app;
```

> If you want to serve static files like CSS, image or JavaScript files, you will need to add the following to your `src/server.js/ts` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To serve static files like CSS, image or JavaScript files, add the following to your `src/server.js/ts` file:
```

> ```javascript

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```javascript
---
filename: src/server.js/ts
---
```

Author: mh.... would be an overkill to add tabs for js and ts here? .js/ts doesn't sit well with me 😖

app.get("/public/*", async (ctx) => {
  return await ctx.env.ASSETS.fetch(ctx.req);
});
```

This will cause all the files in the `public` folder within `dist` to be served in your application.

{{<Aside type="note">}}

> The `dist` directory is created and used during the bundling process, you'll need to create a `public` directory there. Having `public` inside `dist` is not generally wanted as `dist` isn't a directory to commit to your repository whilst `public` is.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dist` directory is created and used during the bundling process. You will need to create a `public` directory in the `dist` directory. Having `public` inside `dist` is not generally wanted as `dist` is not a directory to commit to your repository whilst `public` is.
```

> There are different alternatives to fix such issue, for example you can configure your `.gitignore` file to include the `dist` directory, but ignore all its context except the `public` directory. Alternatively you can create a `public` directory somewhere else and copy it inside `dist` as part of the bundling process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are different alternatives to fix this issue. For example, you can configure your `.gitignore` file to include the `dist` directory, but ignore all its context except the `public` directory. Alternatively, you can create a `public` directory somewhere else and copy it inside `dist` as part of the bundling process.
```

{{</Aside>}}

Open your `package.json` file and update the `scripts` section:

{{<tabs labels="js | ts">}}
{{<tab label="js" default="true">}}

```json
---
filename: package.json
---
    "scripts": {
        "dev": "run-p dev:*",
        "dev:wrangler": "wrangler pages dev dist --live-reload",
        "dev:esbuild": "esbuild --bundle src/server.js --format=esm --watch --outfile=dist/_worker.js",
        "build": "esbuild --bundle src/server.js --format=esm --outfile=dist/_worker.js",
        "deploy": "wrangler pages publish dist"
    },
```

{{</tab>}}
{{<tab label="ts">}}

```json
---
filename: package.json
---
    "scripts": {
        "dev": "run-p dev:*",
        "dev:wrangler": "wrangler pages dev dist --live-reload",
        "dev:esbuild": "esbuild --bundle src/server.ts --format=esm --watch --outfile=dist/_worker.js",
        "build": "esbuild --bundle src/server.ts --format=esm --outfile=dist/_worker.js",
        "deploy": "wrangler pages publish dist"
    },
```

{{</tab>}}
{{</tabs>}}

> Here `npm-run-all` enables you to use a single command `npm run dev` to run `npm run dev:wrangler` and `npm run dev:esbuild` together simultaneously in watch mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here `npm-run-all` enables you to use a single command `npm run dev` to run `npm run dev:wrangler` and `npm run dev:esbuild` simultaneously in watch mode.
```

## Run in local dev

Start your dev workflow by running:

```shell
$ npm run dev
```

You should be able to review your generated web application at `http://localhost:8788`.

{{<render file="_tutorials-before-you-start.md">}}

## Create a GitHub repository

Create a new GitHub repository by visiting [repo.new](https://repo.new). After creating a new repository, prepare and push your local application to GitHub by running the following commands in your terminal:

```sh

> $ git remote add origin https://github.com/<yourgithubusername>/my-hono-app
> $ git branch -M main
> $ git push -u origin main

Author: ```suggestion
$ git init
$ git remote add origin https://github.com/<username>/my-hono-app
$ git add .
$ git commit -m "Initial commit"
$ git branch -M main
$ git push -u origin main
```
